Communications protocol for the Quad-Driver motorboard
W. Birkfellner, Dec. 2017, V. 0.1

The Quad-stepperboards communicate via USB between the host computer and 
the Teensy 3.6 running the steppers with the AccelStepper library.
so far the commands are transmitted as characters, following the convention:
xyzzzzzz...
where x is a character denoting the action to be taken, y is a number between
0 and 4, where therse are literals, and zzzzzz... is a string of bytes that 
is converted to a long integer. 

An example:
"a1200" sets the acceleration (denoted by 'a') of the second drive ('1' instead 
of '0') to 200 microsteps per second. 

Commands that apply to all drives (such as the request for the drive state) are given without additional bytes

In general, parameters have to be set, then the drive is enabled, and then ist should start. 
Once a motion is finished, the drive is being automatically disabled.

Command set:
To enable or disable drives:
'exy' ... where x is the number of the drive ('0' or '1' for the focus-driver board) 
and y is a boolean - 1 means enable the drive (that is, power the coils up), and
0 means "disable".

Setting the acceleration:
axyyyyy ... where x is the number of the drive and yyyy is a long integer for the 
acceleration in microsteps/^2.

Setting microsteps:
Microsteps can only be set for groups of two drives, the command is
mxyyy ... x is 0 or 1, in dependence of the drive group (main drives are 0, aux drives are 1)
xxx is either 001, 002, 004, 008, 016, 032, 064 or 128. This is the 
nominator of the ratio of microstepping. For instance "m0008" sets both drivers for the main drives 
to 1/8 microstepping.

Setting final velocity:
vxyyyy ... where x is the drive as usual and yyyy is a long integer for microsteps/s, 
which is the end velocity.

Setting the number of steps:
sxyyy ... again, x is the driver and yyy is the number of microsteps

Checking whether a board is connected:
t ... this command responds with a string xxxx where the position indicates the drive addressed and x is either 
0 or 1 in dependce of the drive state. 1 means that the drive is running.

Stop a drive:
xy ... y is the address of the drive.

Start a drive:
oy ... y is the drive. Steps, acceleration, microstepping and velocity have to 
be defined, and the drives have to be enabled. 


 



